Hi all,

I've been having trouble running FIX and am guessing it has to do with a failure to install and compile all of the required components properly. In an attempt to re-work my way through the instructions step by step to see what went wrong, I realized that there seem to be a few different versions of the instructions, found at:

1. The readme file on: https://git.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fix/-/tree/1.06.13
2. THe FIX wiki page instructions: https://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki/FIX/UserGuide#Downloading_and_Installing_FIX
3. The readme file in the downloaded FIX directory itself

I realize they are mostly similar but have come across a few differences, mainly in the sections regarding installation of R, and was wondering if someone had any insight as to which is the most recent version of instructions that I should follow. Thanks!

Best,
Maeve
Hi FSL team,

I am looking to perform a longitudinal VBM on normalized & smoothed partial volume maps output from CAT12 longitudinal segmentation.

I would like to ask for your suggested steps with the FEAT GUI to carry out a linear mixed effects model with the following R-syntax specification:

pGM ~ Group * Gene_IsProtective * TimeFromBaseline + AgeAtBaseline + TIV + (1 | Subject)

pGM refers to the partial-volume grey matter images.
Group is a factor with 5 levels, the first being a Control population.
Gene_IsProtective is a factor with 2 levels, Non-Protective and Protective
* refers to the main effects and interaction
TimeFromBaseline is a continuous variable.
Subject is the subject identifier and I wish to have subjects as a random intercept.

Data is NOT complete, some subjects have 2 timepoints, some may have as many as 6. For a glimpse of the raw data, I have provided a spahgetti plot.

Given the size of this dataset, I believe the GUI will outright freeze and I have to use command-line tools. Fair enough.

My primary interest is in the triple interaction: I hypothesize that the protective gene reduces the degree of atrophy over time differently in each group relative to Controls (therefore 4 T-contrasts would be specified).

Is the following approach permitted in FSL:
1) Run a flameo --runmode=ols on every individual with the following model:

pGM ~ TimeFromBaseline

Please refer to the example specification in FirstLevelExample.png

^ I assume that this will create the necessary items:
- cope1.nii.gz , which will be the statistical image for the TimeFromBaseline effect. In other words, this will represent the trend change in pGM over time for a given subject.
- varcope1.nii.gz , which will be the variance image associated
- tdof_t1.nii.hz , which is the dof

2) Concatenate the cope, varcope, tdof from individual subjects into 4d image files. I assume these are used as the inputs for flameo --cope, --varcope, and --dofvarcope, respectively, correct?

3) Run a FLAME1 model:

cope ~ Group * Gene_IsProtective + AgeAtBaseline + TIV

Please refer to the example specification in SecondLevelExample.png. Since the effect of time is already captured in the first-level analysis, I believe the interaction at the second level has to be reduced down from 3 -> 2, correct? This is the level at which the 4 T-contrasts would be used.

4) Run the typical SmoothEst -> PtoZ -> Cluster followup.

Could you let me know if there are any holes in my thought process for how this is done in FSL?

Thanks and I appreciate the time and effort you give,
Maurice

Dear All,


As the 2024 DIPY Workshop approaches, we want to remind you to secure your spot by registering today! Our lineup of speakers is truly exceptional, featuring experts in neuroimaging and MRI techniques. Join us for insightful talks from Dr. Paul Thompson, who will explore neuroimaging studies with diffusion MRI, Dr. Markus Nilsson, who will unveil new encoding strategies in diffusion MRI, and Dr. Gary Zhang, who will delve into machine learning techniques in quantitative MRI. Don't miss this opportunity to learn from the best in the field!


poster.png

As customary at the DIPY workshop, we offer:


Daily sessions for guided practice (hands-on experience)

Opportunities for attendees to present their work or discuss problems of interest

Certificates of Attendance for all participants


The Platinum option provides exclusive access to workshop videos post-event and additional support from the DIPY team.


For registration and any inquiries, please visit our website here or contact our team here. We eagerly anticipate your participation and the opportunity to delve into the fascinating realm of imaging science together.


Register now to secure your spot and take advantage of this enriching learning experience!


Additionally, we are pleased to offer discounts for students and faculty facing economic hardships. For more information, please reach out to us at dipy@python.org.


On behalf of the DIPY team,

Eleftherios Garyfallidis, PhD

Associate Professor

Intelligent Systems Engineering

Indiana University

Luddy Hall 700 N Woodlawn

Bloomington, IN 47408

GRG | DIPY | FURY




Dear FSL Team,

 

I am trying to install FSL but get the following error:

 

certificate verify failed: unable to get local issuer certificate

 

Do you know what can be the problem?

 

Additionally, when running the installer using terminal, it did not prompt me to choose a folder where to install it or ask me for any passwords.

 

Best wishes,

Sara 

Hi Estephan,

It looks like you are being affected by two separate bugs in the fslnets code - I'll fix them and will release a new version tomorrow, and will let you know when you are able to install it (you should be able to upgrade your version in-place).

Paul

Application Form: https://bit.ly/repro-school-fellowships

Deadline: 15/03/2024 midnight anywhere in the world.


Join the ReproPsy & e-ReproNim Fellowship Programmes!


Are you passionate about robust, rigorous, and transparent research practices in Psychology and/or Neuroscience? Do you want €1,000 or (slightly) more to fund training to enhance your skills in software and data management? Do you want to join a vibrant community of practice? Look no further!


This is a second call for the first edition of two Fellowship programmes, ReproPsy and e-ReproNim. These are unique opportunities to become part of a vibrant community dedicated to advancing open and robust data practices in Psychological and Neuroscientific research.


By becoming a ReproPsy Fellow, you will join a network of like-minded researchers dedicated to advancing data practices in Psychology and Neuroscience. Our programmes offer more than just financial support—it provides a platform for collaboration, knowledge sharing, and professional growth.


The project is led by Dr Jim Grange (Keele University, UK) and Dr Etienne Roesch (University of Reading, UK). They are part of the repro.school collective, and funded by the Research Data Alliance (RDA), in collaboration with the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC Future), and the UK Reproducibility Network’s Open Research Programme. 


The RDA aims to develop and adopt infrastructure that promotes data-sharing and data-driven research, thereby grounding the fellowship programmes in networks of data specialists.

ReproPsy is part of the RDA Psychology Data Interest Group;

e-ReproNim is part of the RDA Neuroimaging Data Working Group, and the European sister project to the North American repronim.org.


The UK Reproducibility Network is a grassroot movement, created organically by researchers in the UK in 2019, in response to the so-called reproducibility crisis. It now gathers active representatives of 70 research-intensive Universities in the UK and lead major projects. Other national Reproducibility Networks exist; there might be one closer to you? If not, contact us and we’ll help you set up.


Open Data in Psychology & Neuroimaging

In a context where results of research are questioned, open data is transforming the landscape of our practices, enabling collaboration, reproducibility, and innovation. As Psychology & Neuroscience embraces this paradigm shift, we aim to equip researchers like you with the necessary skills and resources to adopt and adapt your data practices, ensuring greater impact and scientific progress, and helping you help your community.


Project overview

The mission of the Fellowship programme is to empower communities to excel in open data practices. In each programme we are offering 15 fellowships, each worth up to €1,000, to support early career researchers (ECRs) from both EU and UK institutions. ECRs typically donate their time to upskill and transmit this new knowledge to their local communities. We expect the funding awarded to be directed towards helping you create opportunities for learning and teaching, helping you fund your own software and data management training, and organise bespoke training sessions at your home institution. The funding could for instance be used to organise training from the Carpentries (http://carpentries.org) or similar venues; or, should your local policies on workload allocation permit, you could use the funding to offset time commitment towards such training, in agreement with your line manager.


What we ask of you in return is a commitment to participate in the online events organised (at least once a month) and in the projects that may arise, such as scoping and designing training needs, contributing to writing training material, and other projects that you may bring to the table!


More information about the programmes and to access the application form (including dropbox link to submit letters of support, evidence of claims and invoices), please visit https://repro.school/2023/05/31/join-the-repropsy-e-repronim-fellowship-programmes/. 


Important: Because of constraints imposed on the funding, we must have received all claims and invoices for selected Fellows by the 31/3/2024. The deadline for application is 15/3, and applicants must include all claims and invoices in their application. Applications and documents sent after the deadline will not be processed. For enquiries about ReproPsy, contact j.a.grange@keele.ac.uk, and for e-ReproNim, contact e.b.roesch@reading.ac.uk.



Application Process

Applying for our Open Data Fellowship Program is simple! The link to the application form is at the bottom, but here's a brief outline of what you will need to consider before applying:


Field(s) of research (Up to 1000 char with spaces): What you do.

Training Needs (Up to 2000 char with spaces): In your application, highlight the training needs for yourself and your local research community. How can open data practices benefit your institution and Psychology as a whole?

Training Plan (Up to 2000 char with spaces): Describe the aim, motivation, and relevant prior experience related to the training you envision. How will this training empower your research and contribute to the open data movement?

Scope of Impact (Up to 2000 char with spaces): Outline the scope of your local community that would benefit from the training. Show us how this initiative can create a ripple effect, benefiting multiple researchers at your institution.

Special circumstances (Up to 2000 char with spaces): This is a gather-it-all section that allows you to bring anything you think might be relevant to the evaluators. Use this category to describe aspects related to equity, diversity and inclusion we ought to know about.

Justification of resources (Up to 5000 char with spaces): Provide itemised costs (including tax if applicable) describing how you plan to use the funding allocated in the Fellowship. Each Fellow can request funding for €1,000 or (slightly) more AND upload all evidence of claims and scan of invoices in the dropbox link found at the bottom of the application form.

Host Institution Support (signed pdf with letterhead): Upload a letter of support from your host institution, as a PDF file, signed by your line manager, confirming their commitment to supporting your training and supporting you to organise training in your community. This could involve allocating time, which must be clearly stated (in number of hours estimated), or providing you with other necessary resources. Files must be uploaded onto the public dropbox link provided in the application form. You will be asked for your name, and your email address; we only need your name to link your file to your application, and the email address does not have to be real. Any issue with uploading a file, please email e.b.roesch@reading.ac.uk. 


Please also note:

The maximum number of characters allowed are not targets to be met. Be as concise as needed.

We are committed to supporting typically under-represented communities, and will apply a process of positive action towards supporting equity, diversity and inclusion. Specifically, after applications are graded by our evaluators and ranked, we will assert the landscape of the selection and adjust the selection if needed. Please use the Special Circumstances box to raise to the attention of the evaluators anything you think may deserve consideration.

The ReproPsy and e-ReproNim Fellowship programmes are separate projects, yet have lots in common–starting with the application form! We thus regret to say that we will not accept applications to both programmes, and you must specify one or the other on the application form.

Funding is only available to applicants from institutions hosted in the EU and the UK. Because of the structure of the funding allocation, we are reserving 5 fellowships to UK applicants in each of the fellowship programmes, 10 out of 30 in total.

Information related to the transfer of the award will be shared with successful applicants after selection. Fellows will be required to have identified who at their host institution will be managing this financial transaction: typically a post-award or a finance office.

Applications are managed using Google Forms, and PDF uploads with Dropbox. Neither of these platforms require you to create an account on Google or Dropbox. We collect your name and email addresses on the Google Form to identify your applications. This information is not shared with anyone, and only used for general statistics and logistics of the selection process.



If you wish to be kept in the loop of what we do, please register to the Psychology Data Interest Group and Neuroimaging Data Working Group, with the Research Data Alliance. Alternatively, you can also visit our website.

 

PS: I usually only manage to look at emails, Teams and the like after 2pm. For anything pressing, please call me or book yourself in my University Outlook calendar.

—
Prof. dr. Etienne B. Roesch   |   Professor of Applied Statistics & Cognitive Science   |   Univ. Reading 
Institutional Lead for Open and Reproducible Research, UK Reproducibility Network
Discipline Hopping Fellow, Natural Environment Research Council

meetings:   book yourself in my University Outlook calendar
www:  etienneroes.ch   |   osf.io/ede88   |   github.com/eroesch   |   rdg.ac.uk/cinn   |   shop
research:  project-chai.org   |   rescience   |   ukrn

 

Dear all,

 

We have a position open for a postdoc in neuroimaging (MRI) of patients with endocrine and metabolic diseases, at Karolinska Institute, Sweden.

Our group focuses on brain health mostly in primary adrenal insufficiency and inborn errors of metabolism.

 

Note! The position will in practice be at Karolinska Institute, Solna campus (and not at Gothenburg University, where the position is advertised).

 

https://web103.reachmee.com/ext/I005/1035/job?site=7&lang=UK&validator=9b89bead79bb7258ad55c8d75228e5b7&job_id=33128

 

Feel free to contact us via Svetlana.lajic@ki.se

 

Greetings! 

 

Annelies

 

