Hi Jothini,

In terms of your model, I would encourage you to read my paper here 
(https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2019.00352/full), as 
there are a number of recommendations in Gläscher and Gitelman that are 
not suitable for testing effects in repeated measures models. The paper 
will explain the theory and provide some examples in SPM of how to 
correctly use these types of models.

In terms of your questions:

1) Even though I specified the factor "subject" as first, "group" as 
second and "condition" as third factor, respectively, why does SPM put the 
"subject" columns at the end of my design matrix and "group" in the 
beginning?

The order of columns in the design matrix is dictated by the "Main Effects 
& Interactions" option, not the order in which you add the factors. If you 
added the main effect of subject first, then the subject columns would 
come first.

2) I am interested in the contrast G1C1 versus G2C1 and I set it up based 
on Dr. McLaren's description in previous posts. First, I defined the 
contrast weights for my design matrix for
G1C1=[1 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 ones(1,n1)/n1 zeros(1,n2)]
G2C1=[0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 zeros(1,n1) ones(1,n2)/n2]
And then I substracted them, to get G1C1 versus G2C1:
G1C1-G2C1=[1 -1 0 0 1 0 -1 0 ones(1,n1)/n1 -ones(1,n2)/n2]
Did I specify this contrast correctly?

Yes, the weights are correct for calculating the effect. HOWEVER, this 
will not provide the correct error term for the hypothesis test. This is 
effectively a between-subjects effect that you are testing using a 
within-subject error term. This is explained in the paper, but the 
long-and-short of it is that your error term will be too small and the 
significance of effects will be over-stated. Another way of seeing this is 
considering that the subject effects do not cancel. The subject effects 
are random-effects and shouldn't factor into the effect you are trying to 
test.

3) When I run this second level model, I do see some significant activity 
in the white matter and the ventricles even after cluster-level FWE 
correction. Does anyone know why this is the case? Might there be a 
problem with my preprocessing (I preprocessed the data using SPM12 
including realignment, slice timing correction, outlier detection, 
segmentation, normalization and smoothing)? And any ideas how this can be 
resolved?

This may partly be due to the incorrect error term above, but also can be 
a result of spatial smoothing which can move activation beyond its 
original spatial extent. It could also be motion related. I'd get the 
hypothesis test right first before exploring any further.

4) One of the advantages of the flexible factorial model is that unequal 
group sizes are taken into account. In my case, as I have balanced sample 
sizes within the two groups, is there still an advantage of using the 
flexible factorial model?

The flexible factorial model isn't for unequal group sizes. All the other 
SPM models also allow for unequal group sizes, so this isn't an advantage 
of the flexible factorial. I've written another paper about dealing with 
unequal group sizes within the GLM 
(https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/neuroscience/articles/10.3389/fnins.2016.00270/full), 
but this relates more to the contrast weights than it does the model 
setup. The flexible factorial module can be used for overparameterised 
repeated measures designs. That's the advantage, not group size.

Hope this helps!

- Martyn

The School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences at the University 
of Reading is looking to appoint two permanent members of faculty in 
Developmental/Social/Forensic psychology. The appointments will be made at 
the Lecturer level (US equivalent: Assistant Professor). 

The school is one of the oldest departments of Psychology in the UK, and 
has a strong research focus, It houses three research clinics (focusing on 
Anxiety, Depression, Speech & Language, Autism) as well as the Centre for 
Integrative Neuroscience and Neurodynamics with a research-dedicated 3T 
scanner, TMS, and EEG.

The deadline to apply is 16th September.
More details on the roles and application are available here:
https://jobs.reading.ac.uk/Job/JobDetail?JobId=13619

--
Bhismadev Chakrabarti, PhD

Professor of Neuroscience & Mental Health
Research Director, Centre for Autism
School of Psychology & Clinical Language Sciences, University of Reading

W: bhismalab[dot]org


Hi Naoto!
Pleased to see you doing well.

I haven't done anything related to fMRI network analysis recently, so I'll 
just write a general answer.

1. Spectral Density (BOLD):
The number of graphs displayed in the Spectral Density (BOLD) plot is 
related to the number of VOIs (Volumes of Interest) selected. When you 
select 3 VOIs, the plot will display 5 graphs, as each VOI has its own 
spectral density plot, and there are also cross-spectral density plots 
between each pair of VOIs, resulting in a total of 5 graphs.

However, when you select 4 or more VOIs, the number of graphs increases 
exponentially, as there are more possible pairwise cross-spectral density 
plots. For example, with 4 VOIs, there will be 10 graphs (4 individual 
spectral densities + 6 cross-spectral densities), and with 5 VOIs, there 
will be 15 graphs (5 individual spectral densities + 10 cross-spectral 
densities).

The default display may be limited to 5 graphs when selecting 3 VOIs to 
avoid overwhelming the plot with too many lines. This is likely a design 
choice to keep the visualization manageable for the common case of 3 VOIs. 
If you need to see all the individual and cross-spectral densities, 
selecting 4 or more VOIs will provide the complete picture.

2. Functional Connectivity:

The term "non-neuronal" refers to physiological signals that are not 
directly related to neural activity, such as those originating from 
vascular, metabolic, or other sources. These non-neuronal signals can also 
contribute to the BOLD (Blood-Oxygen-Level-Dependent) signal measured in 
fMRI.

In the "Neuronal and non-neuronal part" plot, the solid, dashed, and 
dash-dotted lines represent the estimated contributions of the neuronal 
and non-neuronal components to the overall BOLD signal for each of the 
VOIs (MTG1_mm, MTG2_mm, and MTG3_mm).

To better understand these lines, you should refer to the parameters in 
the DCM file, specifically:

The "A" matrix, which represents the intrinsic connectivity between the 
neuronal states of the VOIs.
The "C" matrix, which represents the influences of the experimental inputs 
on the neuronal states.
The "G" matrix, which represents the parameters of the hemodynamic model 
that transform the neuronal activity into the observed BOLD signal.

The solid lines represent the estimated neuronal component, while the 
dashed and dash-dotted lines represent the estimated non-neuronal 
components (e.g., vascular, metabolic) for each VOI. Analyzing these 
components can provide insights into the underlying neural and non-neural 
contributions to the observed BOLD signal.

I'm sure the expartes on the mailing list will answer any further 
questions.

For now, why don't you read the following review article on DCM practices?
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2009.11.015
https://doi.org/10.1016/S1053-8119(03)00202-7

Igarashi@Niigata

Dear SPM experts,

I am encountering some difficulties in interpreting the results from DCM 
analysis, and I would appreciate your guidance on the following issues:

1. Spectral Density (BOLD):
When selecting three VOIs, only five graphs are displayed, as shown in the 
attached, rather than the expected six. However, when I select four or 
more VOIs, the graphs are displayed as expected (e.g., 10 for four VOIs, 
15 for five VOIs). Could you please explain why this is the case? Is there 
a default setting that limits the display to only five graphs when 
selecting three VOIs?

2. Functional Connectivity:
I was just wondering what the term "non-neuronal" means? Additionally, I 
am having trouble understanding what the solid, dashed, and dash-dotted 
lines represent on the left graph. Which specific items in the DCM file 
should I refer to in order to better understand these lines?

Thank you very much for your assistance and time in advance.

Kind regards,
Naoto Nagino

Dear Colleague,

Apologies for cross-posting! 

 

The Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences of the University of 
Coimbra (FPCE-UC) Portugal invites applications from rising and aspiring 
leaders in Cognitive Science and Neuroscience and Cognitive Computational 
Neuroscience for 2 tenure-track positions at the Assistant Professor 
level. These positions are part of a transformative ERA Chair grant 
CogBooster from the European Union to FPCE-UC led by Dr. Alfonso 
Caramazza. The goal of CogBooster is to implement strong and international 
lines of research in Cognitive Science/Neuroscience, so as to contribute 
to the ongoing renewal of the Psychological and Brain Sciences in Portugal 
over the next decade. 

 

The project has recently led to the appointment of Jorge Almeida, Jason 
Fischer and Joana Carvalho as tenured Professors, and Alfonso Caramazza as 
a Visiting Researcher at the University of Coimbra.

 

 

Equal Employment Opportunity statement:

 

The University of Coimbra is an equal opportunity/affirmative action 
employer and has a Gender Equality Plan in place. We are committed to 
fostering a diverse and inclusive academic global community at the 
University. We particularly encourage applications from women, and from 
under-represented groups in the University of Coimbra’s workforce and in 
the brain sciences.   

 

 

Positions:

 

We seek applicants with expertise in any area of Cognitive 
Science/Neuroscience and Cognitive Computational Neuroscience. The 
positions are tenure-track at the rank of Assistant Professor. The start 
date should be around September 1, 2025 (but potentially negotiable).

 

 

Qualifications:

 

Applicants must hold a Ph.D. in a discipline relevant to Cognitive 
Science/Neuroscience and Cognitive Computational Neuroscience. Successful 
applicants should have an excellent record of research for their career 
level. To contribute to the mission of CogBooster and to the research and 
educational mission of FPCE-UC, they are expected to establish an active 
research program in any of the major cognitive areas, acquire external 
research funds, and contribute to teaching and mentoring.

 

The applicant will actively engage in research, teaching, and supervision 
in the field of the specific positions at FPCE-UC and its affiliated 
research center. Applicants may use different technical and methodological 
approaches to address their cognitive research questions, including, but 
not limited to, cognitive neuropsychological investigations, human 
neuroimaging techniques (fMRI, EEG, sEEG, etc), behavioral and cognitive 
approaches, and computational cognitive neuroscience.

 

 

Offer:

 

Positions are tenure-track and include social security and national 
pension plans, medical insurance, and all legally applicable benefits 
under Portuguese law. Salary depends on the level of appointment.

 

In addition to the legally required employment conditions described above, 
and as part of the ERA Chair initiative CogBooster, these positions come 
with a start-up package. This includes (subject to final discussion 
between the selected candidates and Dr. Alfonso Caramazza):

 

· Funding for 1 Post-Doctoral fellow at the Portuguese pay grade for 36 
months;

 

· Funding for 1 Research Assistant/Doctoral student at the Portuguese pay 
grade for 36 months;

 

· Funding for 200 fMRI hours (or EEG hours, use of neurostimulation, 
etc.);

 

· Funding for attending and presenting at national and international 
conferences

 

· Funding for open access publications;

 

· Funding for Laboratory resources (e.g., Computers);

 

· Laboratory space shared with other laboratories at FPCE-UC;

 

· Institutional support for applying to major European and international 
grants (grant reviewing by experts, interview preparation, etc).

 

 

About Portugal, Coimbra, and FPCE-UC:

 

Portugal’s warm and pleasant climate, rich history and culture, beautiful 
landscapes and beaches, affordable cost of living, and quality but 
affordable medical and educational systems, makes it one of the most 
exciting countries to live in. Moreover, Portuguese culture is incredibly 
family-friendly, welcoming to foreigners (English is widely spoken), and 
the country is one of the five safest countries in the world. Finally, it 
features an incredible and diverse cuisine, great wine, and a pace of life 
commensurate with work-life balance.

 

The University of Coimbra is a 700-year-old University and is a UNESCO 
world Heritage site. Coimbra is one of the liveliest university cities in 
the world, and it is a beautiful city with easy access to the beach and 
mountains. According to Numbeo-Cost of Living, 2300 euro in Coimbra (the 
net value approximate monthly salary of an Assistant Professor, 12 months 
plus a Summer and Christmas bonus is a total of 14 months) correspond to a 
local purchasing power of about 4300 euro in Paris, 4700 GBP in London 
(UK), 3050 euro in Rome, 4100 euro in Munich, 3600 euro in Brussels, 
approximately 5700 USD in Los Angeles, 6000 USD in Washington, or 6200 USD 
in Boston, 6200 CAD in Toronto, 19k CNY in Beijing or Shanghai, 11k reais 
in São Paulo, and 7600 AUD euro in Sydney.

 

The Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences has been consistently 
ranked as the, or one of the, best Psychology Departments in Portugal. In 
the last decade it has become the leading department in Portugal on 
Psychological research, holding, for instance, the only 2 ERC grants in 
Psychology in Portugal. FPCE-UC has laboratories for Cognitive Science and 
Cognitive Neuroscience research – the Proaction Lab (led by Jorge 
Almeida); The Dynamic Perception Lab (led by Jason Fischer), Joana 
Carvalho's Vision Science lab, and the Cognitive Neuropsychology group led 
by Alfonso Caramazza. We have access to two 3T MRI scanners, to tDCS and 
TMS with neuronavigation, to a 256 channel EEG, and to a fully functional 
behavioral lab.

 

 

Further information:

 

The official call will be available here at a later date (by the end of 
2024, beginning of 2025), but please send an email to Dr. Jorge Almeida 
(jorgecbalmeida@gmail.com) if you want to be informed when the positions 
are open, and/or if you want to receive further information about the ERA 
Chair Project CogBooster. In the meanwhile, we strongly encourage 
potential applicants to contact Drs. Alfonso Caramazza 
(caram@wjh.harvard.edu) and Jorge Almeida (jorgecbalmeida@gmail.com). 
Please send us your CV, and a short cover letter describing your interest 
in the position (including the general field of research).

Dear all,

 

I would like to draw your attention to two PhD positions in Germany at 
Forschungszentrum Jülich in the field of Cognitive Neuroscience (INM-3). 
Details of the positions can be found under the following links

https://www.fz-juelich.de/de/karriere/stellenangebote/2024D-080

https://www.fz-juelich.de/de/karriere/stellenangebote/2024D-081

 

Best wishes,

Ralph Weidner 

 

PD Dr. Ralph Weidner, Dipl.-Psych.
INM 3 - Kognitive Neurowissenschaften
Forschungszentrum Jülich
Leo-Brandt-Str. 5
52425  Juelich
Germany
Tel.: ++49 (0)2461/616737
Fax : ++49 (0)2461/611518
e-mail: r.weidner@fz-juelich.de

Hi everyone

Instats is offering a 2-day workshop on Using ChatGPT and Copilot for 
Efficient Data Analysis in R, running August 29 - 30, by professor Peter 
Gruber (who holds dual PhDs in physics and economics). This workshop 
provides a 21st-century introduction to Statistical Analysis with R, 
focusing on the efficient use of AI assistants including ChatGPT and 
Github Copilot to automate R coding with plain language requests. Because 
R is free, this revolution will help democratize access to basic and 
advanced analysis tools without having to suffer the learning curve of 
coding in R, including for qualitative and mixed methods research. 
Participants will learn step by step how to install AI tools and how to 
harness their power for efficient data analysis in R, making them many 
times more efficient. They will be able to create R code in the blink of 
an eye and with unprecedented ease of use, while learning some of the 
underlying principles of the R language as this relates to competently 
assessing and using AI-generated code.

Professor Gruber also have two separate 2-day workshops on how to use 
ChatGPT's newly updated Advanced Data Analysis tool to natively analyze 
data using ChatGPT. These workshops are timed for the EU and US time 
zones, with the first one Using ChatGPT for Advanced Data Analysis 3.0 
(EU) on September 16 - 17, and the second Using ChatGPT for Advanced Data 
Analysis 3.0 (US) on October 19 and 22.

Don't miss out on this unique opportunity to learn how to easily and 
rapidly analyze your data in R and/or ChatGPT, and please feel free to 
tell your friends and colleagues!


Best wishes
Michael Zyphur
Director
Institute for Statistical and Data Science
instats.org

Topic: Upcoming NIH Workshop: Insights Into Cognitive And Neural
Function Through Eye Tracking

The Center for Multimodal Neuroimaging (CMN; cmn.nimh.nih.gov) and the
fMRI Core Facility (FMRIF; fmrif.nimh.nih.gov) are proud to announce
our upcoming workshop September 4-5 on “Insights Into Cognitive And
Neural Function Through Eye Tracking”. The workshop brings together
ten experts (8 extramural, 2 intramural) linking together eye tracking
and cognition. An introduction to the workshop will be provided by Dr.
Chris Baker.

On Wednesday, September 4th, speakers will present their research into
theory and methods from 9am – 5pm, full schedule available soon. On
September 5th, the speakers will take part in a roundtable
specifically tailored to NIH trainees from 9am – 12pm (noon). This is
an ideal opportunity for trainees to connect with experts and get
advice on training and career development.

The workshop will be held on the NIH Bethesda campus in Building 40
and simultaneously streamed on zoom. Recordings will be available
later on NIH VideoCast and YouTube.  More information can be found on
our website:

https://cmn.nimh.nih.gov/cmnworkshop2024

Dear Jacqueline

We recommend concatenating the onsets, pre-GLM specification, as set out 
in that Wiki article. It’s an interesting idea to concatenate the VOI 
files – but you would also need to concatenate the onsets, by which time 
you may as well have gone down the GLM route.

 

Best

Peter

 

From: SPM (Statistical Parametric Mapping) <SPM@JISCMAIL.AC.UK> On Behalf 
Of Quirke, Jacqueline
Sent: 20 August 2024 12:18
To: SPM@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
Subject: [SPM] DCM Concatenation Error

 

⚠ Caution: External sender

 

Dear SPM Experts, 

 

I hope this message finds you well. 

 

I was hoping to ask a DCM query concerning the concatenation of two 
timepoints. 

 

I am working with fMRI timeseries data which has previously undergone 1st 
and 2nd level fMRI analyses via SPM12. It contains two runs within the 
data during one session. 

 

I am working to extract VOI's from the significant peaks of the 2nd level 
analysis in order to run DCM to investigate effective connectivity 
differences in bipolar disorder versus healthy controls. When I extract a 
VOI, I am given two output files, one from the "pre" timepoint (run 1), 
and one from the "post" timepoint (run 2). I have been attempting to 
concatenate the pre and post VOI.mat files in order to continue my 
analyses using a single file (to investigate pre versus post timepoint 
differences).  

 

I have tried to concatenate them via the Matlab terminal using the 
following code: 

 

 
 
 

Which resulted in a .mat file with the following structure: 

 

 

 

However, when I have moved this file forward into the "specify" step 
within the DCM software of SPM12, I received the following error:  

 

 

 

Do you happen to know why I have come up against these errors?

 

Alternatively, I have researched using the SPM concatenation method 
illustrated here: https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/SPM/Concatenation 

 

However, my understanding is that this step needs to take place prior to 
running 1st level fMRI analyses. (Please let me know if my understanding 
is incorrect). 

 

Based on all of this, I was not sure what to try next. Do you know if 
there are any alternative methods for the concatenation of VOI.mat files? 
Or is my only option to concatenate the timepoints prior to 1st level fMRI 
analyses?

 

Thank you so much for your time. Looking forward to hearing your advice.  

 

Best wishes, 

Jacqueline Quirke 

 

PhD Candidate 

University of Galway, Ireland

Dear SPM Experts, 
 
I hope this message finds you well. 
 
I was hoping to ask a DCM query concerning the concatenation of two 
timepoints. 
 
I am working with fMRI timeseries data which has previously undergone 1st 
and 2nd level fMRI analyses via SPM12. It contains two runs within the 
data during one session. 
 
I am working to extract VOI's from the significant peaks of the 2nd level 
analysis in order to run DCM to investigate effective connectivity 
differences in bipolar disorder versus healthy controls. When I extract a 
VOI, I am given two output files, one from the "pre" timepoint (run 1), 
and one from the "post" timepoint (run 2). I have been attempting to 
concatenate the pre and post VOI.mat files in order to continue my 
analyses using a single file (to investigate pre versus post timepoint 
differences).  
 
I have tried to concatenate them via the Matlab terminal using the 
following code: 
 
 
 
 
Which resulted in a .mat file with the following structure: 
 
 
 
However, when I have moved this file forward into the "specify" step 
within the DCM software of SPM12, I received the following error:  
 
 
 
Do you happen to know why I have come up against these errors?

Alternatively, I have researched using the SPM concatenation method 
illustrated here: https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/SPM/Concatenation 
 
However, my understanding is that this step needs to take place prior to 
running 1st level fMRI analyses. (Please let me know if my understanding 
is incorrect). 
 
Based on all of this, I was not sure what to try next. Do you know if 
there are any alternative methods for the concatenation of VOI.mat files? 
Or is my only option to concatenate the timepoints prior to 1st level fMRI 
analyses? 

Thank you so much for your time. Looking forward to hearing your advice.  
 
Best wishes, 
Jacqueline Quirke 
 
PhD Candidate 
University of Galway, Ireland

From: Mark Woolrich 
Date: Tuesday, 20 August 2024 at 11:09
Subject: Job opportunity: Experiment Support Officer (Electrophysiology 
and Brain Stimulation) 

 

We are looking to appoint an experiment support officer to support the 
human neurophysiology (EEG and MEG) and brain stimulation research in the 
Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging (WIN) at the University of 
Oxford.  The post will be primarily based within the Oxford Centre for 
Human Brain Activity (OHBA), but also support labs in other WIN buildings, 
including the FMRIB at the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford. 

 

Please see here for more details:

 

https://my.corehr.com/pls/uoxrecruit/erq_jobspec_details_form.jobspec?p_id=174462

Two Experienced Postdoctoral Researchers or Research Fellows in Deep 
Neural Networks for Medical Imaging

Brain development in infants and its disruption by preterm birth or 
perinatal injury, can be measured with functional MRI (fMRI). 
Unfortunately, infants move in the scanner and half the images are 
discarded, precluding clinical application. In recent years, deep neural 
networks (DNNs) have led to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence and 
are finding growing application in biomedical imaging. DNNs have 
considerable potential to correct head motion in fMRI, as they can learn 
complex mappings, and exploit knowledge of brain structure. The 
FreezeMotion project will develop DNNs to motion correct fMRI data.

Candidates must have expertise in at least one of the two following areas 
and must be willing to develop skills in the other:
•       design and optimisation of deep neural networks
•       neuroimaging with fMRI
Candidates must have a strong level of expertise in programming in python 
or another language.

FreezeMotion is a collaboration between Rhodri Cusack (Trinity College 
Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin), Chen Qin (Department 
of Electrical and Electronic Engineering and Imperial-X, Imperial College 
London), Mark Chiew (Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto) and Alex 
Bronstein (Computer Science, Technion).

The post will be based in Dublin, Ireland. Appointment will be on SFI 
Experienced Post Doctoral Research (2B) or Research Fellow (Level 3) 
scales, full time, €51,677-€68,318 per annum. Benefits include a pension 
contribution and PRSI social insurance.

See further details and application procedure at 
cusacklab.org/freezemotion.html

Deadline 12 noon on Sept 16, 2024

PhD Studentship in Deep Neural Networks for Medical Imaging

Brain development in infants and its disruption by preterm birth or 
perinatal injury, can be measured with functional MRI (fMRI). 
Unfortunately, infants move in the scanner and half the images are 
discarded, precluding clinical application. In recent years, deep neural 
networks (DNNs) have led to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence and 
are finding growing application in biomedical imaging. DNNs have 
considerable potential to correct head motion in fMRI, as they can learn 
complex mappings, and exploit knowledge of brain structure.  The 
FreezeMotion project will develop DNNs to motion correct fMRI data.

Candidates must have expertise in at least one of the two following areas 
and must be willing to develop skills in the other:
•       design and optimisation of deep neural networks
•       neuroimaging
Candidates must have expertise in programming in python or another 
language.

FreezeMotion is a collaboration between Rhodri Cusack (Trinity College 
Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin), Chen Qin (Department 
of Electrical and Electronic Engineering and Imperial-X, Imperial College 
London), Mark Chiew (Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto) and Alex 
Bronstein (Computer Science, Technion).

The studentship comprises EU fees, a stipend, research materials, and 
conference travel. A waiver for non-EU fees may be possible for 
exceptional candidates.

See further details and application procedure at 
cusacklab.org/freezemotion.html

Deadline 12 noon on Sept 16, 2024

PhD Studentship in Deep Neural Networks for Medical Imaging

Brain development in infants and its disruption by preterm birth or 
perinatal injury, can be measured with functional MRI (fMRI). 
Unfortunately, infants move in the scanner and half the images are 
discarded, precluding clinical application. In recent years, deep neural 
networks (DNNs) have led to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence and 
are finding growing application in biomedical imaging. DNNs have 
considerable potential to correct head motion in fMRI, as they can learn 
complex mappings, and exploit knowledge of brain structure.  The 
FreezeMotion project will develop DNNs to motion correct fMRI data.

Candidates must have expertise in at least one of the two following areas 
and must be willing to develop skills in the other:
•       design and optimisation of deep neural networks
•       neuroimaging
Candidates must have expertise in programming in python or another 
language.

FreezeMotion is a collaboration between Rhodri Cusack (Trinity College 
Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin), Chen Qin (Department 
of Electrical and Electronic Engineering and Imperial-X, Imperial College 
London), Mark Chiew (Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto) and Alex 
Bronstein (Computer Science, Technion).

The studentship comprises EU fees, a stipend, research materials, and 
conference travel. A waiver for non-EU fees may be possible for 
exceptional candidates.

See further details and application procedure at 
cusacklab.org/vacancies.html

Deadline 12 noon on Sept 16, 2024

Two Experienced Postdoctoral Researchers or Research Fellows in Deep 
Neural Networks for Medical Imaging

Brain development in infants and its disruption by preterm birth or 
perinatal injury, can be measured with functional MRI (fMRI). 
Unfortunately, infants move in the scanner and half the images are 
discarded, precluding clinical application. In recent years, deep neural 
networks (DNNs) have led to breakthroughs in artificial intelligence and 
are finding growing application in biomedical imaging. DNNs have 
considerable potential to correct head motion in fMRI, as they can learn 
complex mappings, and exploit knowledge of brain structure. The 
FreezeMotion project will develop DNNs to motion correct fMRI data.

Candidates must have expertise in at least one of the two following areas 
and must be willing to develop skills in the other:
•       design and optimisation of deep neural networks
•       neuroimaging with fMRI
Candidates must have a strong level of expertise in programming in python 
or another language.

FreezeMotion is a collaboration between Rhodri Cusack (Trinity College 
Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College Dublin), Chen Qin (Department 
of Electrical and Electronic Engineering and Imperial-X, Imperial College 
London), Mark Chiew (Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto) and Alex 
Bronstein (Computer Science, Technion).

The post will be based in Dublin, Ireland. Appointment will be on SFI 
Experienced Post Doctoral Research (2B) or Research Fellow (Level 3) 
scales, full time, €51,677-€68,318 per annum. Benefits include a pension 
contribution and PRSI social insurance.
Theses posts will be for two years but there may arise the opportunity to 
extend them.

See further details and application procedure at 
cusacklab.org/vacancies.html

Deadline 12 noon on Sept 16, 2024

i everyone,

This is just a friendly reminder that the next online CONN workshop will 
be starting in a month (Sept 16 - Oct 18), and there is still time to 
enroll if you are interested.

CONN (https://www.conn-toolbox.org) is a popular SPM toolbox that 
implements preprocessing, quality assurance, denoising, first- and 
second-level functional connectivity analyses, for both resting-state as 
well as task-based functional data.

As usual, the CONN workshop (https://www.conn-toolbox.org/workshops) 
offers intensive hands-on and highly interactive courses covering all 
aspects of functional connectivity analyses in CONN, and both beginners 
and advanced users are welcome. Presentations will take place over Zoom on 
Monday and Friday for five consecutive weeks, and there will be a bit of 
homework each week and some office hours available to help with that. 
Course contents include:

1) basic topics in CONN such as data import, fMRI preprocessing pipelines, 
data denoising and quality control procedures, seed-based and ROI-to-ROI 
functional connectivity measures, or group-level General Linear Model 
(GLM) analyses and inferences

2) descriptions and examples of all specialized functional connectivity 
methods available in CONN, including generalized Psycho-Physiological 
Interaction models, temporal modulation analyses, Independent Component 
Analyses, voxel-to-voxel connectivity measures, network- and cluster- 
level statistics, graph theory measures, functional connectivity 
MultiVariate Pattern Analyses, or dynamic connectivity analyses

and 3) discussions about practical aspects of fcMRI analyses, covering 
topics such as clinical applications of functional connectivity, how to 
design GLM analyses addressing specific research questions, or how to 
create batch scripts and use parallelization options in High Performance 
Computing environments

For additional information and registration please visit 
https://conn-toolbox.org/workshops

Looking forward to seeing you there!
Alfonso Nieto-Castanon

Dear SPM Community,

I hope this message finds you well. I am currently working on a project 
where I have combined Halfpipe for preprocessing with SPM for analysis. 
Specifically, I have manually loaded all runs and regressors in the batch 
for one subject, saved the scripts and batch, and am now in the process of 
modifying the first-level script to loop over multiple subjects. My 
approach has primarily followed Andy’s Brain Book tutorials, with some 
additional exploration to adapt it to our specific data structure.

I was wondering if anyone in the community has followed similar steps or 
has experience with this combination of tools. I would greatly appreciate 
any insights or suggestions you might have, especially if there are more 
efficient approaches or potential pitfalls to be aware of.

Thank you in advance for your time and help.

Best regards,

Lancy.C


--
Lancy Cao. (she/her/hers)
Doctoral Student, Clinical Psychology
Stony Brook University
Lancy.Cao@stonybrook.edu


Hi Everyone,

We are hiring a Neuroimaging Lab Staff Researcher. Please forward this to 
anyone who may be suitable or can refer us appropriate candidates.

https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/ut_health_science_center/jobdetail.ftl?job=24000001OX&tz=GMT-05%3A00&tzname=America%2FChicago


Neuroimaging Lab Staff Researcher-Department of Pediatrics
Click the link provided to see the complete job description.
ut.taleo.net




Neuroimaging Lab Staff Researcher-Department of Pediatrics
 - 24000001OX
 
 

Hi, I am about to finish my PhD by December 2024. Am I allowed to apply?


On Wed, 14 Aug, 2024, 5:04 pm Jorge Almeida, <jorgecbalmeida@gmail.com> 
wrote:
The Proaction Laboratory (proactionlab.fpce.uc.pt) at the University 
Coimbra Portugal is looking for Researchers at initial stages (post-PhD) 
of their career to be part of the lab in a joint competitive application 
to a Portuguese Science Foundation (FCT) independent researcher call. We 
particularly encourage applications from women, and from underrepresented 
groups in academia.

 

The applicants should have obtained a PhD, and have an interest in 
cognitive neuroscience, vision science and preferably (but not limited to) 
object recognition, shape processing, and texture and surface processing. 
We are particularly interested in motivated and independent Researchers 
addressing these topics with strong expertise in fMRI (in particular 
decoding and multivariate apporaches). Good programming skills, great 
communication and mentoring skills, and a great command of English are a 
plus.

 

The applicant and the lab will work on a competitive project to be 
submitted. Results from the application are expected to be out mid 2025. 
The application will be open September 30, and will close November 29, 
2024.

 

The positions are as independent researchers in the Proaction Lab, are for 
3 years, and the salary is the same as the Portuguese payroll for 
University Professors (net values for junior or assistant positions, for 
instance are approximately 1700 or 2100 euros net-value per month in a 
14-month salary per year; these are competitive salaries for the cost of 
living in Portugal and especially in Coimbra).

 

The Proaction Lab is currently very well funded as we have a set of 
on-going funded projects including a Starting Grant ERC to Jorge Almeida, 
a major European ERA Chair project to Jorge ALmeida and Alfonso Caramzza, 
and other projects. We have access to a 3T MRI scanner with a 32-channel 
coil, to tDCS, and to a fully set psychophysics lab. We have a 256 ch EEG, 
motion tracking and eyetracking on site. We also have a science 
communication office dedicated to the lab.

 

Finally, the University of Coimbra is a 700 year old University and has 
been selected as a UNESCO world Heritage site. Coimbra is one of the most 
lively university cities in the world, and it is a beautiful city with 
easy access to the beach and mountain.

 

You should apply as soon as you can - the sooner the better so that we can 
prepare the application. If interested send an email to 
jorgecbalmeida@gmail.com, with a CV, and motivation/scientific proposal 
letter. If there is a fit, we will jointly apply to these positions – we 
have had in past applications a high success rate as a lab (in four 
previous editions, we got several applications that were offered a 
position).



Hi everyone,

The project "BullyStop - Predictors and (neuro-)biological correlates of 
(cyber)bullying and victimization in real contexts" is being carried out 
at the Clinic for Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, 
headed by Prof. Dr. Dr. Tobias Banaschewski. This project is part of a 
newly established Transregio Collaborative Research Center (TRR), funded 
by the German Research Foundation (DFG), which will commence in October 
2024. The primary objective of the TRR is to identify multidimensional 
bio-signatures of aggression in mental disorders, with the ultimate goal 
of developing tailored, bio-signature-specific prevention and intervention 
strategies.

For further details about the positions and application procedures, please 
visit: 
https://www.einzigartigwir.de/en/job-offers/doktorandin-wissenschaftliche-mitarbeiterin-ag-entwicklungsneurowissenschaften-in-der-psychiatrie-996/

Employer: ZI Mannheim
Salary grade: TV-L 13 (65%)
Application Deadline: Open
Starting date: October 2024

A good knowledge of German is highly appreciated.  

For informal inquiries, please contact Seda Sacu, a PhD Candidate at ZI 
Mannheim, at seda.sacu@zi-mannheim.de.

Best,
Emin

Fully funded PhD (28th August deadline) to understand cortical visual loss 
arising in the UK Biobank repeat imaging study and owing to posterior 
cortical atrophy ('visual variant Alzheimer's').

https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/visual-system-vulnerability-in-dementia-from-detection-to-determinants/?p173178

Best wishes,

Keir

Hi All,

I am running a script that performs spatial normalization in batch mode: 


matlabbatch{8}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.subj.def(1) = cfg_dep('Segment: 
Forward Deformations', substruct('.','val', '{}',{2}, '.','val', '{}',{1}, 
'.','val', '{}',{1}), substruct('.','fordef', '()',{':'}));
matlabbatch{8}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.subj.resample(1) = 
cfg_dep('Coregister: Estimate: Coregistered Images', substruct('.','val', 
'{}',{7}, '.','val', '{}',{1}, '.','val', '{}',{1}, '.','val', '{}',{1}), 
substruct('.','cfiles'));
matlabbatch{8}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.bb = [-78 -112 -70
                                                          78 76 85];
matlabbatch{8}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.vox = [2 2 2];
matlabbatch{8}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.interp = 4;
matlabbatch{8}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.prefix = 'w';
matlabbatch{9}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.subj.def(1) = cfg_dep('Segment: 
Forward Deformations', substruct('.','val', '{}',{2}, '.','val', '{}',{1}, 
'.','val', '{}',{1}), substruct('.','fordef', '()',{':'}));
matlabbatch{9}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.subj.resample(1) = 
cfg_dep('Segment: Bias Corrected (1)', substruct('.','val', '{}',{2}, 
'.','val', '{}',{1}, '.','val', '{}',{1}), substruct('.','channel', 
'()',{1}, '.','biascorr', '()',{':'}));
matlabbatch{9}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.bb = [-78 -112 -70
                                                          78 76 85];
matlabbatch{9}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.vox = [1 1 1];
matlabbatch{9}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.interp = 4;
matlabbatch{9}.spm.spatial.normalise.write.woptions.prefix = 'w’;


The resulting error message seems to indicate a dimension mismatch:

SPM12: spm_imcalc (v6961)                          21:54:46 - 13/08/2024
========================================================================
ImCalc Image: 
/media/Data2/STTR_UNM/15-507/20161005_M87148839/output-TF/workdir/ActivationMaps/norm_stats/brain.nii
Done    'Image Calculator'
Running 'Coregister: Estimate'
Failed  'Coregister: Estimate'
Index exceeds matrix dimensions.
In file "/media/Synapse2-root/usr/local/spm12/config/spm_run_coreg.m" 
(v5956), function "spm_run_coreg" at line 15.


Any suggestions would be appreciated.

Thanks,

Stefan




Stefan Posse, Ph.D.

Professor of Neurology (primary), & Physics and Astronomy 
University of New Mexico School of Medicine

Mailing Address:
Department of Neurology
MSC 10 5620
1 University of New Mexico
Albuquerque, NM  87131

Email: sposse@unm.edu 
Phone: (+1) 505 925-6087
Fax: (+1) 505 272-6692
Website: https://posse.unm.edu










PS Apologies that the github link I sent was incorrect (thanks to Tom 
Nichols for pointing out) – the Matlab livescript that tries to explain 
statistics for neuroimaging from first principles is here: 
https://github.com/RikHenson/CognesticStats (or with python version if 
preferred).

 

 

From: Orhan Murat Koçak <orhanmuratkocak@gmail.com>
Sent: 12 August 2024 09:15
To: Rik Henson <Rik.Henson@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk>
Cc: SPM@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
Subject: Re: [SPM] 3 x 2 x 2 design

 

Hi Rik,

Thank you very much for your rapid reply:) 

We will work on it with the direction that you recommended.

 

Rik Henson <Rik.Henson@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk>, 12 Ağu 2024 Pzt, 10:52 
tarihinde şunu yazdı:

 

Hi Orhan –

 

The contrast weights for the 3-way interaction in a 2x2x3 ANOVA are:

 

d2 = orth(diff(eye(2))')

d3 = orth(diff(eye(3))')

c = kron(kron(d2,d2),d3)’

 

If you are doing these in 1st-level models, and want to test at the group 
level, then they will produce 2 con*imgs per participant, which you need 
to take to a 2nd-level model consisting of just two columns (a “one-way 
ANOVA with no constant term”) in which you can evaluate the F-contrast 
“eye(2)”.

 

If you are doing these in a 2nd-level model (with 12 conditions), you can 
simply evaluate the “c” matrix above, though note that you should model 
nonsphericity when fitting the model (ie selecting unequal variance and, 
if a within-participant design, non-independence, in the SPM interface).

 

The general way to create such contrasts (eg for other ANOVA effects in 
your design) is given in the section “Generalization to K-Way ANOVAs” of 
this PDF:

 

https://www.mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/www/sites/3/2015/03/Henson_EN_15_ANOVA.pdf

 

Or if you want a more general introduction to the GLM in the context of 
imaging, you could try this Matlab Livescript (ie interactive notebook): 
https://github.com/RikHenson/CognesticStats/cognestic_stats_matlab.mlx

 

Rik

 

---------------------------------------------------------------

 

Prof Richard Henson, MA, MSc, PhD, FBA

Professor of Cognitive Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, University 
of Cambridge

Director, Cambridge Centre for Ageing and Neuroscience (CamCAN)

President-Past, British Neuroscience Association

Fellow of the British Academy


MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit
University of Cambridge

15 Chaucer Road
Cambridge, CB2 7EF
England

EMAIL:  rik.henson@mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk
URL:    http://www.mrc-cbu.cam.ac.uk/people/rik.henson/personal

DIRECT: +44 (0)1223 767 591
RECEPT: +44 (0)1223 355 294
MOBILE: +44 (0)794 1377 345

 

What is credible neuroscience?

---------------------------------------------------------------

 

 

From: SPM (Statistical Parametric Mapping) <SPM@JISCMAIL.AC.UK> On Behalf 
Of Orhan Murat Koçak
Sent: 12 August 2024 06:56
To: SPM@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
Subject: [SPM] 3 x 2 x 2 design

 

Hi everybody,

 

We are stuck in an analysis of our data. Maybe it was discussed but I 
missed it to the answer of my question so sorry for bothering. We have 
there group, two imagination tasks (somatization and distraction), and two 
masking tasks (negative, positive). We are trying to do a full factorial 
analysis. We cannot design a contrast manager. My question is how can we 
enter the values in order to obtain results of an interaction of group x 
imagination x mask (Panic, somatization, negative)?


Thank you very much

 

--

Orhan Murat Koçak

Baskent University Faculty of Medicine Department of Psychiatry



 

--

Prof. Dr. Orhan Murat Koçak

Başkent Üniversitesi Tıp Fakültesi Psikiyatri A.D.

Baskent University Faculty of Medicine Department of Psychiatry

Dear Benedetta,

If it's still not resolved,  send me just the mat file of that dataset and 
I'll take a look.

Vladimir



