Hi Chris,

I'll try that out, thank you so much!


Best,
Lisa



Lisa Jeschke
PhD student
lisa.jeschke@tu-dresden.de
+49 351 463-43897

Cognitive and Clinical Neuroscience / Professur für Kognitive und Klinische Neurowissenschaft
TUD Dresden University of Technology
https://tu-dresden.de/mn/psychologie/ifap/kknw

Dear Ladies and Gentlemen,

 

at the Institute of Psychology of the Faculty of Psychology and Sports Science of the Leopold-Franzens-University the following position is advertised:

Tenure-Track Position for Biological Psychology

 

We kindly ask you to publish the attached text of the advertisement or the link below in your sphere of influence, with the indication that the University of Innsbruck is striving to increase the proportion of women, especially in management positions as well as for academic positions.

 

https://www.uibk.ac.at/fakultaeten-servicestelle/standorte/innrain52f/berufungen/ausschreibungstexte/at-biologpsych-hp-en-5.pdf

 

 

The application deadline is 20 November 2023.

 

 

Thank you very much in advance!

 

With kind regards

Norma Giovannini

The successful candidates will work on projects recently funded by a SNSF-Starting grant, and will be investigating the brain mechanisms of spatial and object-based attention in healthy human subjects and stroke patients by means of multi-modal MRI and Virtual Reality. 

The PhD student will be appointed for four years, and should have a background in neuroscience, cognitive science, engineering, or related fields. Experience in quantitative methods, experimental research, and brain imaging will be highly beneficial. The ideal candidate is pro-active, able to work independently, and has excellent organization and communication skills. 

The candidates will have the opportunity to acquire, analyze and interpret multi-modal MRI and behavioral data from ongoing projects. Example projects include mechanistic studies of attention, high level vision, perception in traditional and Virtual Reality experiments, study of stroke patients. They will use mostly 3T MRI, with the possibility of exploratory experiments at high-field 7T MRI. Candidates will receive one on one mentoring and will work in a collaborative, vibrant, multi-disciplinary environment to gain experience in neuroscientific research. We offer a competitive salary.

Please email the following application material to Ilaria Sani (ilaria.sani@unige.ch)

using the subject heading “AttentiveBrains PhD/Postdoctoral Position Application”

 

·                     Motivation letter outlining research experience and interests, career plans, and fit for the position (1 or 2 pages)

·                     CV

·                     1-3 names of possible references

·                     If available, a sample publication or preprint; otherwise, a poster or a short (300 words max) description of a previous research project

 

Ideal starting date:                    October 2023

 

One additional post-doc position will be opened at the end of 2023 with a focus on non-human primate research. Please contact ilaria.sani@unige.ch if interested.

 

 

----------------------------------------------------------------

Ilaria Sani, PhD

http://www.theattentivebrain.com/

SNSF-Assistant Professor

Campus Biotech, Chemin des Mines 9, 1202 Geneva, CH

Phone: +41 223 790 383

 

